GOLDENGOOSE’S
GRITANDGLAMOUR
The Italian brand may be best known for its sneakers, but the
clothes—inspired this fall by the swagger of the ’70s—are not to be missed
By Nick Sullivan   Photograph by Ryan Slack
O V E R
 
T H E
 
PA S T
 
2 5
 
Y E A R S ,
Venice-based Golden Goose has

grown from a small, artisanal
operation to a global retail phenom-

enon. That’s based largely on the
brand’s iconic weathered sneakers,
plus a firm belief—when everyone

was going the other way—in the
value of brick-and-mortar experi-

ences. But what can get lost in the
mix
 
is
 
just
 
how
 
good
 
Golden

Goose’s clothes are.
You couldn’t call them street—

they’re more elevated than that—but
there’s a gently dilapidated vintage
vibe about them, something that

echoes rather than apes those delib-
erately pre-aged sneakers. They’re

considered. Intentional. There’s no
sense of a rush to expand massively

with apparel, as the brand did with
sneakers. This is perhaps why we
don’t hear about the clothing so

much—which is, to our minds, a
strength rather than a weakness.

Fall’s collection is inspired by
the 1970s in all their glamour and

grit. Standouts like swaggery, over-
size wool coats, distressed jeans,
and chunky knitwear give it a

thrifted vibe that belies the quality
of the materials. There’s a faint

whiff of globe-trotting hippie there
too (without, fortunately, the whiff

of actual hippie). But the clothes
aren’t costumey or off in their own

world. These are upscale pick-and-
mix pieces that work with what’s in
your closet and are ready to be

thrown together any way you
want—you know, like the way real

people dress.

Coat ($2,210), jacket ($1,390),
polo shirt ($590), jeans ($690), and
boots ($970) by
 
Golden Goose;
necklaces and charms by
 
Pandora.

DEPTH
OF
FEELING
Omega’s much-loved
technical diver, the
Planet Ocean, just got
a major refresh
_
By Jonathan Evans

WHEN OMEGA INTRODUCED THE PLANET OCEAN, THE GOAL WAS
to go deeper—both figuratively and literally—into the world of watches

built for underwater adventure. The original, introduced 20 years ago,
screamed
 
diver
 
with a look that paid homage to the iconic Seamaster 300
designs of the ’50s and ’60s and technical advancements that gave it twice

the water resistance of its predecessor. It quickly earned itself a sea (sorry)
of dedicated fans.

Since then, the Planet Ocean has gone through three generations and
more than a few changes. It’s slimmed down, gained a ceramic bezel, been

done up in gold, and reached new depths with the Planet Ocean 6000M.
(Yes, that means
 
6,000 meters,
 
or about 20,000 feet.) But even after two

decades, we had yet to see a shift as massive as the latest release.
The first thing fans will notice about the fourth-generation Planet Ocean
is that Omega has ditched the helium-escape valve—it looks like a second

crown at ten o’clock—making it a much easier everyday wear. That’s com-
pounded by a slimmer, flatter profile, which means that even at 42mm,
it’ll sit nicely under a shirt cuff. There’s also a revamped flat-link steel

bracelet—though we’re partial to the utilitarian vibe of the rubber strap.
But the most exciting change, in our book, is the new look of the case.

Though it takes its cues from Omega watches of the ’80s and ’90s, the
sharper, angular, almost architectural approach feels modern and just dif-

ferent enough to get collectors’ mouths watering. And of course, it has
water resistance up to 600 meters, otherwise known as “deeper than most

of us will ever go.” Good thing it looks so stylish on dry land too.
Seamaster Planet Ocean watch
(
$
8,600) by
 
Omega.

Vincent van Gogh created a new way to paint the world he saw,
becoming recognized long after his death for achieving some of
the most beautiful works in art history.

BIRTH
OF
THE
COOL
NOWADAYS, IT’S A NOBRAINER THAT BOXOFFICE STARS MAKE
unbeatable ambassadors for fashion brands. It wasn’t always that way. In

the mid-1990s, when cell phones were good for phone calls and not much
else, actors would show up for premieres but rarely for fashion shows—and
never in an ad campaign.

At the time, magazines were fat with glossy ads full of models with impos-
sible faces and bodies photographed in exotic locations mere mortals could

never hope to visit. Clothes were sexed up and splashy. Real life was
nowhere. That was the game. But Prada wasn’t playing.

Instead of shouting for attention, the Milanese brand quietly nudged its
way into the men’s-fashion consciousness with clothes that were simple,

wearable, modern, and, above all, cool—more of a grown-up uniform than
b
l
u
e
pri
n
t

36
STYLING: ANDREA RÍOS. GROOMING: ROBERTO
ALVARADO JR. USING CHARLOT TE TILBURY AT ART
DEPARTMENT. MODEL: BRANDO B AT NEXT MANAGEMENT.
© PE TER LINDBERGH FOUNDATION (MALKOVICH).
a way of life. As if to underline it, when Prada produced its first ad cam-
paign in the spring of 1995 for its fall men’s collection, it chose an unlikely

avatar: actor John Malkovich. Then 41, Malkovich was Hollywood famous
(
Dangerous Liaisons, The Sheltering Sky, Empire of the Sun
) but had a repu-
tation for embracing varied and unusual roles. He was not the first guy you’d

think of for a fashion campaign.
But Malkovich gave Prada’s clothes a different kind of sex appeal. Shot

in black-and-white against a stark white background by superstar photog-
rapher Peter Lindbergh, Malkovich wore a nylon bomber, a peacoat with

a crewneck sweater, a heavy herringbone wool coat, and a satin suit, per-
sonifying the Prada man while looking like he’d just stepped off the street.

It was anti-fashion as fashion.